%toc

http://blogs.msdn.com/b/usbcoreblog/archive/2013/06/29/wpp-blog-post.aspx#Including_TMF_information
https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/hardware/ff553493

There are two types of symbol files (PDB): private PDBs and public PDBs. 
<br>A private PDB is intended for internal use whereas a public PDB is used by the consumers of your binary.

Before Windows 8, it was not possible to include formatting information (contained in TMF files) in public PDBs. 
As a workaround, the TMF files had to be updated and uploaded frequently so that they were in-sync with the associated symbol files. 

In Windows 8, the build and other WPP utilities have been enhanced to include trace messages in public PDBs. 
You can use the symbol file to capture WPP trace messages without worrying about out-of-sync TMF and symbol files.

== Including TMF information in public PDB files ==


== PDBCopy ==
https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/hardware/ff553365%28v=vs.85%29.aspx
The PDBCopy tool (pdbcopy.exe) is a command-line tool that removes private symbol information from a symbol file. 
<br>It can also remove selected information from the public symbol table.

> pdbcopy RtkBtfilter.pdb PublicBtFilter.pdb -p
Remove private symbols from full symbol files and publicBtFilter contains only public symbols

== SymChk ==
https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/hardware/ff558844%28v=vs.85%29.aspx
SymChk (the Microsoft Symbol Checker tool), Symchk.exe, is a program that compares executable files to symbol files to verify that the correct symbols are available.


