%toc
= Intro =
Home:   http://scikit-learn.org/stable/index.html
<br>Tutorial:   http://blog.csdn.net/zt_706/article/details/11476049
<br> scikit-learn是一个用于机器学习的 Python 模块，建立在SciPy基础之上，获得3-Clause BSD 开源许可证。

== What is scikit-learn? ==
Scikit-learn provides a range of supervised and unsupervised learning algorithms via a consistent interface in Python. 
<br>It is licensed under a permissive simplified BSD license and is distributed under many Linux distributions, encouraging academic and commercial use.

The library is built upon the SciPy (Scientific Python) that must be installed before you can use scikit-learn. This stack that includes:

    [[NumPy]] Base n-dimensional array package
    [[SciPy]] Fundamental library for scientific computing
    [[Matplotlib]] Comprehensive 2D/3D plotting
    [[IPython]] Enhanced interactive console
    [[Sympy]] Symbolic mathematics
    [[Pandas]] Data structures and analysis

== Data Sets ==
A dataset is a dictionary-like object that holds all the data and some metadata about the data. 
*   [[http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets.html|Machine Learning Repository]]
*   http://mldata.org/

DataSet in scikit-learn:    http://scikit-learn.org/stable/datasets/index.html#datasets
*   Toy datasets: a few small standard datasets that do not require to download any file from some external website.
    *   load_boston() 	        Load and return the boston house-prices dataset (regression).
    *   load_iris() 	        Load and return the iris dataset (classification).
    *   load_diabetes() 	    Load and return the diabetes dataset (regression).
    *   load_digits([n_class]) 	Load and return the digits dataset (classification).
    *   load_linnerud() 	    Load and return the linnerud dataset (multivariate regression).
*   Sample images:  The scikit also embed a couple of sample JPEG images
    *   load_sample_images() 	        Load sample images for image manipulation.
    *   load_sample_image(image_name) 	Load the numpy array of a single sample image
*   Sample generators: scikit-learn includes various random sample generators that can be used to build artificial datasets of controlled size and complexity.
    *   Generators for classification and clustering
    *   Generators for regression
    *   Generators for manifold learning
    *   Generators for decomposition
*   ......


= Install =
*   >sudo apt-get install build-essential python-dev python-setuptools python-numpy python-pandas python-scipy libatlas-dev libatlas3gf-base
*   >sudo update-alternatives --set libblas.so.3 /usr/lib/atlas-base/atlas/libblas.so.3
*   >sudo update-alternatives --set liblapack.so.3 /usr/lib/atlas-base/atlas/liblapack.so.3
*   >sudo apt-get install python-matplotlib
*   >python setup.py install scikit-learn
*   or Download the source package from http://pypi.python.org/pypi/scikit-learn/, unpack the sources and cd into the source directory ==> python setup.py install

= Usage =
*   [[An introduction to machine learning with scikit-learn]]
*   [[Supervised learning]]
